Hi guys.
In this now we're going to look at EC2 status checks and monitoring.
We still have an instance running from the previous lab and I'm looking at the status checks if you
don't have an instance running just install an instance and what I want you to do is make sure you choose
the Amazon the next to AEMI and obviously the T2 to micro stays within the free tier and just put
it in your web access security group so you have secure shall access to it.
And that's all you need to do.
So when you have an instance running you'll see that you have some status checks here.
These are easy to status checks and they're performed every minute and even return a pass or fail status
if all the checks pass the overall status of the instance is okay.
However if one or more checks fail the overall status is set to impaired.
We have system status checks and instant status checks system status checks off problems with your instance
that require AWS involvement to repair.
So that's a good way to remember it.
Just think when it's a systems status problem it's related to something that AWS needs to troubleshoot
with instance status checks
this is more about problems that involve the operating system and therefore you need to work on it.
You can't enable or disable status checks but you can create or delete alarms that are triggered based
on the result of status checks.
And that's something we're going to look at shortly.
If we go to the monitoring tab and I'm just going to pull this up so we can see a bit more information
here we can see that we have cloudwatch alarms.
Now cloudwatch is a service used for monitoring so it reports operational information using metrics
that are collected from services within AWS and you can see we have no alarms configured here.
We're going to create one shortly.
Now there's two different types.
You have basic monitoring which means every five minutes and you have detailed monitoring which is every
1 minute.
If you enable detailed monitoring you do have to pay for it.
So as you can see you can enable it for the instance and it will change to one minute frequency of metric
collection.
I don't need to enable that for this lab.
So what we're going to do is we're going to enable alarm that triggers when our CPU utilization reaches
a certain threshold.
You can see that quite a few metrics in here that you could use.
But what I want to do is choose creates alarm and what I'm going to do rather than sending a notification
I'm going to take an action and what I'm going to do is terminate the instance and it's going to do
that when the average of CPU utilization is greater than or equal to 80 percent for at least one consecutive
period of five minutes.
And I'm just going to leave the default name for the alarm and choose cried alarm.
So now what will happen is if our utilization of the CPU hits 80 percent or more.
The instance is going to be shut down and terminated by a.
And that's because we have an alarm that will be triggered with an action that says to terminate the
instance.
So what we want to do now is actually trigger this alarm and I'm going to head over to the command line
to do that among the command line in my instance and I need to run this command.
And this installs some repositories from where we can get the stress to which I'm going to use
I'm then going to run sudo yum install stress bash Y
and that's installed the stress tool and I can now clear my screen.
So what this will do is it will actually generate stress on the CPU.
If you just put in dash help or it;s two dashes help maybe yeah.
There we go.
So we've got a series of command line options that we can apply what I'm gonna do is run stress bash
c 8 and what the c command does is it spawns a certain amount of workers and I'm going to choose a and
that's going to generate quite a lot of load on the CPU so let's hit enter and that's going to start
and we can go back to our console and watch what's happening.
Now you can always choose here and you can see what's going on but it's gonna take a bit of time because
we only have basic cloud watch monitoring at this stage so it's only going to pick it up every five
minutes so be a few minutes before it realizes that the CPU is heavily loaded and then it might be another
few minutes before it then sees that it's still in that state and terminates the instance while we're
waiting for that to occur.
We can just have a look into the cloudwatch alarms here and if we choose view more options it opens
to cloudwatch management console and so in here you can see a bit more detail and you can see that
our alarm is in the status of okay so there's nothing wrong at this stage.
Cloudwatch isn't aware there being any heavy load on the CPU. Bback in EC2
we can see that our CPU load has gone way up now according to this is not quite 80 but I think it probably
is and we'll see whether the next metric whether it has exceeded that threshold and caused the alarm
to be triggered.
So a few more minutes have gone past and we can now see that another metric has come in and it's hit
100 percent CPU.
So we should soon see that our long gets triggered head over the cloud watch and have a look and sure
enough we are no longer okay.
We've now gone to a red one to say that we're in an alarm state so let's go back and see what happens
to our instance.
And sure enough there you go.
It's been terminated and you can see here that it's an alarm that caused that termination.
So that's just taught you a little bit about monitoring and status checks and also cloud watch and how
you can create alarms that trigger on certain events that are happening to your resources.
So I hope that was a fun lab for you and what we're going to do in the next lab is we're gonna have
a session on public private and elastic IP addresses.